.\" Copyright (C) 2023 Alexios Zavras
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 Fotios Valasiadis
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-2.1-or-later

.TH BUILD-RECORDER 1 "June 5, 2023" "build-recorder"
.SH NAME
build-recorder \- utility to fully record the interactions between assets (files and tools) when a software artifact is being built (compiled)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B build-recorder
[\-o outfile]
.Ar command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B build-recorder
runs the specified build command until it exits, intercepting the system calls its processes call in an attempt to create a build record, regardless of the programming language, build system, or configuration used.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The information recorded by
.B build-recorder
is represented in RDF triples and saved in the Turtle format in an output file, "build-recorder.out", or to the file specified with the \-o option.

.PP
The ontology used in the output includes the following special types and predicates:

.SS Types
.TP
.B b:process
Represents a process.
.TP
.B b:file
Represents a file.

.SS Process Properties
.TP
.B b:pid
The process ID. (Range: xsd:integer)
.TP
.B b:cmd
The actual command line, obtained by concatenating all arguments separated by white space. (Range: xsd:string)
.TP
.B b:start
The start timestamp. (Range: xsd:dateTime)
.TP
.B b:end
The end timestamp. (Range: xsd:dateTime)
.TP
.B b:env
An environment entry in the form of "VAR=value". (Range: xsd:string)

.SS File Properties
.TP
.B b:name
The file name. (Range: xsd:string)
.TP
.B b:size
The file size in bytes. (Range: xsd:integer)
.TP
.B b:hash
A hexadecimal string representing a unique, git-compatible hash of the file's content. (Range: xsd:string)
.TP
.B b:abspath
The absolute path of the file. (Range: xsd:string)

.SS Relationships
.TP
.B b:creates
Indicates that a process creates another process. (Domain: b:process, Range: b:process)
.TP
.B b:reads
Indicates that a process reads a file. (Domain: b:process, Range: b:file)
.TP
.B b:writes
Indicates that a process writes a file. (Domain: b:process, Range: b:file)
.TP
.B b:executable
Indicates that a process is an executable file. (Domain: b:process, Range: b:file)

.PP
For an example, please refer to the file doc/output.md included in the project's repository or alternatively with the build-recorder package.

.SH BUGS
There is a very slight chance that build-recorder might produce invalid information about a build process, specifically in scenarios of concurrent accesses to the assets used by said process, such as during a system update.

.PP
Build-recorder generally isn't affected by concurrent modifications, but there is a very small window in which a race condition may occur. Use it during such circumstances at your own risk.

.PP
Overcoming this limitation would require implementing system-wide locks on files, which contradicts the project's goals of being an easy to use, non-intrusive, and universally applicable solution.

.PP
Besides that, we try our best to eliminate all bugs.

.PP
Report bugs at https://github.com/eellak/build-recorder/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
strace(1), ptrace(2), syscall(2)

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Alexios Zavras and Fotios Valasiadis.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Fotios Valasiadis
.br
Copyright (c) 2023 Alexios Zavras
.br
This manual page is licensed under the terms of the LGPL-2.1-or-later.
